Helm: document configuration handling in production (#2299)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/running-production-environment-with-helm/configuration-with-helm.md

---
title: "Managing the configuration of Grafana Mimmir with Helm"
menuTitle: "Managing the configuration of Grafana Mimmir with Helm"
description: "Learn how to customise, secure and update the Grafana Mimir configuration using the Helm chart."
weight: 80
---

# Managing the configuration of Grafana Mimmir with Helm

> The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart provides a single interface to set Grafana Mimir [configuration parameters]({{< relref "../configuring/reference-configuration-parameters/" >}}) and customize how Grafana Mimir is deployed on a Kubernetes cluster. This document is about the configuration parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart provides a single interface to set Grafana Mimir [configuration parameters]({{< relref "../configure/reference-configuration-parameters/" >}}) and customize how Grafana Mimir is deployed on a Kubernetes cluster. This document is about the configuration parameters.
```

## Overview

There are three ways configuration parameters can be modified:

1. Copying the whole `mimir.config` value and modifying the configuration as text
1. Setting parameters via the `mimir.structuredConfig` value (recommended)
1. Setting extra CLI flags for components individually

Grafana Mimir components are run with a configuration that is calculated from all three:

1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaulated for Helm templates. This step is intended to ensure that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example setting up cluster specific addresses.

> 1. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` are merged on top. This steps is intended to apply user specific customizations. For example S3 storage details.

Author: ```suggestion
1. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` are merged on top. This step is intended to apply user specific customizations. For example S3 storage details.
```

1. The resulting YAML configuration is then sorted alphabetically and stored in a `ConfigMap` (or `Secret` depending on the value of `configStorageType`) and provided to all Grafana Mimir components.
1. When Grafana Mimir components are run in pods, the configuration file as well as any extra CLI flags are provided to the component.

> 1. Each component evaulates the configuration, substituting environment variables as required. Note that extra CLI flags take precendence over the configuration file.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Each component evaulates the configuration, substituting environment variables as required. Note that extra CLI flags take precedence over the configuration file.
```

Grafana Mimir will not keep track of changes to the credentials. If the credentials change, Grafana Mimir services should be restarted to use the new value. An easy way to trigger such restart is to provide a `global.podAnnotation` which will be applied to all Grafana Mimir components. Changing the value of the global annotation will instruct Kubernetes to restart the components. For example changing `global.podAnnotations.bucketSecretVersion` from `'0'` to `'1'` triggers a restart - note that [pod annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) can only be strings.

## Upgrade and applying changes to the configuration

Follow these steps to inspect what change will be applied to the configuration.

Preparation:

1. Install the [helm diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff) plugin.

> 1. Make sure to use `configStorageType` is set to `ConfigMap`

Author: ```suggestion
1. Make sure that the value `configStorageType` is set to `ConfigMap` (it is the default).
```

> Inspecting changes with the `helm diff` sub command:

Author: ```suggestion
Inspecting changes with the `helm diff` command:
```

---
title: "Manage the configuration of Grafana Mimir with Helm"
menuTitle: "Manage the configuration of Grafana Mimir with Helm"
description: "Learn how to customize, secure and update the Grafana Mimir configuration using the Helm chart."
weight: 80
---

# Manage the configuration of Grafana Mimir with Helm

> The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart provides a single interface to set Grafana Mimir [configuration parameters]({{< relref "../configure/reference-configuration-parameters/" >}}) and customize how Grafana Mimir is deployed on a Kubernetes cluster. This document is about the configuration parameters.

Author: ```suggestion
The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart provides interfaces to set Grafana Mimir [configuration parameters]({{< relref "../configure/reference-configuration-parameters/" >}}) and customize how Grafana Mimir is deployed on a Kubernetes cluster. This document is about the configuration parameters.
```

## Overview

The Grafana Mimir configuration can be managed through the Helm chart or supplied via a user managed object.

If you want to manage the configuration via the Helm chart, see [Manage the configuration with Helm](#manage-the-configuration-with-helm).

If you want to manage the configuration directly, see [Manage the configuration directly](#manage-the-configuration-directly).

Handling sensitive information, such as credentials is common between the two methods, see [Injecting credentials](#injecting-credentials).

## Manage the configuration with Helm

There are three ways configuration parameters can be modified:

> 1. Copying the whole `mimir.config` value and modifying the configuration as text
> 1. Setting parameters via the `mimir.structuredConfig` value (recommended)

Reviewer 2: nit: can you put the recommended way as the first option?
```suggestion
1. Setting parameters via the `mimir.structuredConfig` value (recommended)
1. Copying the whole `mimir.config` value and modifying the configuration as text
```

Reviewer 2: I would even go further and add `(discouraged)` to the `mimir.config` version.

Author: reordered and added suggestions, please review

1. Setting extra CLI flags for components individually

See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.

> > **Limitation:**: it is not possible to delete configuration parameter settings via `mimir.structuredConfig` that were set in `mimir.config`. Set the configuration parameter to its default or to some other value instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Limitation:** it is not possible to delete configuration parameters settings via `mimir.structuredConfig` that were set in `mimir.config`. Set the configuration parameter to its default or to some other value instead.
```

extra colon + AFAIK we don't use "settings", we use "parameters" when talking about the things that configure mimir

Author: ```suggestion
> **Limitation:** it is not possible to delete configuration parameters via `mimir.structuredConfig` that were set in `mimir.config`. Set the configuration parameter to its default or to some other value instead.
```

### How the configuration is applied

Grafana Mimir components are run with a configuration calculcated by the following process:

> 1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaulated for Helm templates. This step is intended to ensure that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example setting up cluster specific addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaluated as a Helm template. This step is intended to ensure that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example setting up cluster-specific addresses.
```

> 1. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` are merged on top and the result is again evaulated for Helm templates. This steps is intended to apply user specific customizations. For example S3 storage details.

Reviewer 2: nit: "merged on top" is a bit helm-speak and may not be clear what takes precedence
```suggestion
1. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` are recursively merged with `mimir.config`. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` take precedence over the values in `mimir.config`. The result is again evaluated as a Helm template. This step is intended to apply user specific customizations. For example S3 storage details.
```

1. The resulting YAML configuration is then sorted alphabetically and stored in a `ConfigMap` (or `Secret` depending on the value of `configStorageType`) and provided to all Grafana Mimir components.

> 1. When Grafana Mimir components are run in pods, the configuration file as well as any extra CLI flags are provided to the component.

Reviewer 2: small nit: this sounds like there is another way to run the components.
```suggestion
1. The configuration file as well as any extra CLI flags are provided to the Mimir pods.
```

> 1. Each component evaulates the configuration, substituting environment variables as required. Note that extra CLI flags take precedence over the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Each component evaluates the configuration, substituting environment variables as required. Note that extra CLI flags take precedence over the configuration file.
```

> > **Note:**: CLI flags are component specific, thus they will not show up in the generated `ConfigMap` (or `Secret`), making it less obvious what configuration is running. Use only when absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** CLI flags are component-specific, thus they will not show up in the generated `ConfigMap` (or `Secret`), making it less obvious what configuration is running. Use only when absolutely necessary.
```

### Inspect changes to the configuration before upgrade

Follow these steps to inspect what change will be applied to the configuration.

Preparation:

1. Install the [helm diff](https://github.com/databus23/helm-diff) plugin.

> 1. Make sure to use `configStorageType` is set to `ConfigMap`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the default value of `configStorageType: ConfigMap`
```

or something along those lines

Author: ```suggestion
1. Verify that `configStorageType` value is set to `ConfigMap`.
```

Author: how about this ^ ?

Reviewer 2: I wanted to mention that it's also the default. Kind of takes away the anxiety when reading that sentence. Because it's less work than actually needed. I am overthinking this, so your version sounds good too. 👍

Inspecting changes with the `helm diff` sub command:

```bash
helm -n mimir-test diff upgrade grafana/mimir-distributed -f custom.yaml
```

> This command shows the differences between the running deployment and the deployment that would result from executing the `helm upgrade` command. Search for `name: mimir-config` in the output to see the difference in configuration settings.

Reviewer 2: deployment can be confusing with the k8s deployment resource
```suggestion
This command shows the differences between the running installation and the installation that would result from executing the `helm upgrade` command. Search for `name: mimir-config` in the output to see the difference in configuration settings.
```

Reviewer 2: Would be cool to add a sample output so people know what to expect

> **Note:** CLI flags and their difference are found in the `Deployment` and `StatefulSet` objects.

> ## Manage the configuration directly

Reviewer 2: "directly" is slightly confusing. If I am writing YAML in the `mimir.config` it's still directly managing what gets passed to mimir. I get what you mean by directly, but I prefer "externally" instead of "directly". This is also the language used in the chart (`externalSecretName`, `externalConfigVersion`, etc) and the headings in that section

> Prepare the configuration as text. It can not include Helm template functions, value evaulations. The configuration may include references to environment variables as explained in [Injecting credentials](#injecting-credentials).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prepare the configuration as text. It cannot include Helm template functions or value evaluations. The configuration may include references to environment variables as explained in [Injecting credentials](#injecting-credentials).
```

> Decide whether you want to use a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to store the configuration. Handling `ConfigMap` is a little bit simpler, but be ware of sensitive information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Decide whether you want to use a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to store the configuration. Handling `ConfigMap` is a little bit simpler, but beware of sensitive information.
```

### Use external ConfigMap

Prepare a `ConfigMap` object where the configuration is placed under the `mimir.yaml` data key.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-mimir-config
data:
  mimir.yaml: |

>     <configuration>

Reviewer 2: nit: a small example would be cool

```suggestion
    blocks_storage:
      backend: s3
      s3:
        endpoint: https://example.com
```

Reviewer 2: this would also make redundant the following sentence

Author: ugh, that's not that simple , here you need to configure everything so I think giving just a few lines would be misleading

Reviewer 2: i thought about this again. I think having the placeholder there is ok

```

Replace `<configuration>` with the configuration as multiline text, be mindful of indentation. The name `my-mimir-config` is just an example.

> Set the following value for the Helm chart:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the following values for the Helm chart:
```

Also, do we need to be more explicit about _how_ or _where_ to set them?

Author: hmm, we're refering to helm values a lot, we should not have to explain about custom values file or setting them on the command line every time, it's helm 101

Reviewer 2: agree

```yaml
useExternalConfig: true
externalConfigSecretName: my-mimir-config
externalConfigVersion: "0"
```

### Use external Secret

> Prepare a `Secret` object where the configuration is base64 encoded and placed under the `mimir.yaml` data key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prepare a `Secret` object where the configuration is base64-encoded and placed under the `mimir.yaml` data key.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-mimir-config
data:

>   mimir.yaml: <configuration-base64>

Reviewer 2: if you want to use the same example 
```suggestion
  mimir.yaml: YmxvY2tzX3N0b3JhZ2U6CiAgYmFja2VuZDogczMKICBzMzoKICAgIGVuZHBvaW50OiBodHRwczovL2V4YW1wbGUuY29tCg==
```

Author: no, for the reason above

```

Replace `<configuration-base64>` with the configuration encoded as base64 format string. The name `my-mimir-config` is just an example.

> Set the following value for the Helm chart:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the following values for the Helm chart:
```

```yaml
useExternalConfig: true
externalConfigSecretName: my-mimir-config
configStorageType: Secret
externalConfigVersion: "0"
```

### Update the configuration

In order to make components aware of configuration changes, either:

- Update the value in `externalConfigVersion` and run `helm update`
- or restart components affected by the configuration change manually

## Injecting credentials

Credentials should be kept in `Secret` objects or in a credential vault. The Helm chart value `global.extraEnvFrom` can be used to inject the credentials into the runtime environment variables of the Grafana Mimir components. The data keys will become environment variables and usable in the Grafana Mimir configuration. For example `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` can be referenced as `${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}` in the configuration. See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.

> Grafana Mimir will not keep track of changes to the credentials. If the credentials change, Grafana Mimir services should be restarted to use the new value. An easy way to trigger such restart is to provide a `global.podAnnotation` which will be applied to all Grafana Mimir components. Changing the value of the global annotation will instruct Kubernetes to restart the components. For example changing `global.podAnnotations.bucketSecretVersion` from `'0'` to `'1'` triggers a restart - note that [pod annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) can only be strings.

Reviewer 2: mostly nits

```suggestion
Grafana Mimir does not keep track of changes to the credentials. If the credentials change, Grafana Mimir pods should be restarted to use the new value. An easy way to trigger such restart is to provide a global pod annotation in `global.podAnnotations` which will be applied to all Grafana Mimir components. Changing the value of the global annotation will make Kubernetes recreate all components. For example changing `global.podAnnotations.bucketSecretVersion` from `"0"` to `"1"` triggers a restart - note that [pod annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) can only be strings.
```

"instruct to restart" isn't exactly right. Kubernetes sees a new annotations and decides to create new pods and delete the old ones

also use the same quotations you used in the previous examples

and consider using the pod annotations link earlier in the paragraph - on the first mention of pod annotations

Author: I think restart is easy to understand, so I'll keep the recreate only in the sentence "Changing the value of the global annotation will make Kubernetes recreate all pods."

Reviewer 2: sounds good

my point was that it's misleading. Not critical, but it might stand out to people more familiar with kubernetes.

> ## Example of configuration managed with Helm

Reviewer 2: Do you want to move this under `## Manage the configuration with Helm`?

Author: I had it there, but it was a lot, I'll talk to doc writer

Reviewer 3: You have a reference under the Manage the configuration with Helm to the example. Because the example would be in the middle of other steps, it makes it cleaner to put the example below as one of the last section.

> This example show how to set up the configuration to use an S3 bucket for blocks storage. We assume that the namespace in use is called `mimir-test`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows how to set up the configuration to use an S3 bucket for blocks storage. We assume that the namespace in use is called `mimir-test`.
```

1. Set up the external blocks storage, in this case S3 with buckets named for example `my-blocks-bucket`, `my-ruler-bucket` and in case of Grafana Enterprise Metrics `my-admin-bucket`.

1. Create an external secret with the S3 credentials by writing the following to a `mysecret.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: mimir-bucket-secret
   data:
     AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: FAKEACCESSKEY
     AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: FAKESECRETKEY
   ```

>    Replace FAKEACCESSKEY and FAKESECRETKEY with the actual value encoded with base64.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Replace FAKEACCESSKEY and FAKESECRETKEY with the actual value encoded in base64.
```

1. Apply the secret to your cluster with the `kubectl` command:

   ```bash

>    kubectl -n mimir-test apply -f `mysecret.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   kubectl -n mimir-test apply -f mysecret.yaml
```

these ticks have a [meaning in bash](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/27428/what-does-backquote-backtick-mean-in-commands/27432#27432)

   ```

1. Prepare your custom values file called `custom.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   global:
     extraEnvFrom:
       - secretRef:
         name: mimir-bucket-secret
     podAnnotations:
       bucketSecretVersion: "0"

>    # This turns of the built in MinIO support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   # This turns of the built-in MinIO support
```

   minio:
     enabled: false

   mimir:
     structuredConfig:

>        # Uncomment in case of Grafana Enterprise Metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       # Uncomment when using Grafana Enterprise Metrics
```

       # admin_client:
       #   storage:
       #     s3:
       #       bucket_name: my-admin-bucket
       #       access_key_id: ${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
       #       endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
       #       secret_access_key: ${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
       alertmanager_storage:
         s3:
           bucket_name: my-ruler-bucket
           access_key_id: ${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
           endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
           secret_access_key: ${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
       blocks_storage:
         backend: s3
         s3:
           bucket_name: my-blocks-bucket
           access_key_id: ${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
           endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
           secret_access_key: ${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
       ruler_storage:
         s3:
           bucket_name: my-ruler-bucket
           access_key_id: ${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
           endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
           secret_access_key: ${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
   ```

1. Check the resulting configuration with the `helm` command before installing:

>    ```bash
>    helm -n mimir-test template mimir grafana/mimir-distributed -f custom.yaml -s templates/mimir-config.yaml
>    ---
>    # Source: mimir-distributed/templates/mimir-config.yaml

Reviewer 2: [style advice from tech writers](https://github.com/grafana/technical-documentation/blob/main/docs/sources/style-guide/writing-conventions.md#command-line) is to separate the command and the output
```suggestion
   ```bash
   helm -n mimir-test template mimir grafana/mimir-distributed -f custom.yaml -s templates/mimir-config.yaml
    ```
   You should see the following output:
   ```yaml
   ---
   # Source: mimir-distributed/templates/mimir-config.yaml
```

      tsdb:
        dir: /data/tsdb
    compactor:
      data_dir: /data
    frontend:
      align_queries_with_step: true
      log_queries_longer_than: 10s
    frontend_worker:
      frontend_address: mimir-query-frontend-headless.test.svc:9095
    ingester:
      ring:
        final_sleep: 0s
        num_tokens: 512
        unregister_on_shutdown: false
    ingester_client:
      grpc_client_config:
        max_recv_msg_size: 104857600
        max_send_msg_size: 104857600
    limits: {}
    memberlist:
      abort_if_cluster_join_fails: false
      compression_enabled: false
      join_members:
      - dns+mimir-gossip-ring.test.svc.cluster.local:7946
    ruler:
      alertmanager_url: dnssrvnoa+http://_http-metrics._tcp.mimir-alertmanager-headless.test.svc.cluster.local/alertmanager
      enable_api: true
      rule_path: /data
    ruler_storage:
      s3:
        access_key_id: ${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
        bucket_name: my-ruler-bucket
        endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
        secret_access_key: ${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
    runtime_config:
      file: /var/mimir/runtime.yaml
    server:
      grpc_server_max_concurrent_streams: 1000

>    ```

Reviewer 2: nit: maybe also a step to `helm upgrade` here?

Author: section is about install, I added the install command

---
title: "Manage the configuration of Grafana Mimir with Helm"
menuTitle: "Manage the configuration of Grafana Mimir with Helm"
description: "Learn how to customize, secure and update the Grafana Mimir configuration using the Helm chart."
weight: 80
---

# Manage the configuration of Grafana Mimir with Helm

> The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart provides interfaces to set Grafana Mimir [configuration parameters]({{< relref "../configure/reference-configuration-parameters/" >}}) and customize how Grafana Mimir is deployed on a Kubernetes cluster. This document is about the configuration parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart provides interfaces to set Grafana Mimir [configuration parameters]({{< relref "../configure/reference-configuration-parameters/" >}}) and customize how Grafana Mimir is deployed on a Kubernetes cluster. This document describes the configuration parameters.
```

## Overview

> The Grafana Mimir configuration can be managed through the Helm chart or supplied via a user managed object.

Reviewer 3: Added a hyphen since "user-managed" functions as an adjective for object. 
```suggestion
The Grafana Mimir configuration can be managed through the Helm chart or supplied via a user-managed object.
```

If you want to manage the configuration via the Helm chart, see [Manage the configuration with Helm](#manage-the-configuration-with-helm).

If you want to manage the configuration externally yourself, see [Manage the configuration externally](#manage-the-configuration-externally).

> Handling sensitive information, such as credentials is common between the two methods, see [Injecting credentials](#injecting-credentials).

Reviewer 3: Added a missing comma.
```suggestion
Handling sensitive information, such as credentials, is common between the two methods, see [Injecting credentials](#injecting-credentials).
```

## Manage the configuration with Helm

There are three ways configuration parameters can be modified:

1. Setting parameters via the `mimir.structuredConfig` value (recommended)

> 1. Copying the whole `mimir.config` value and modifying the configuration as text (discouraged, unless you want to stop upgrades of the chart to automatically update the configuration)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Copying the whole `mimir.config` value and modifying the configuration as text (discouraged, unless you want to prevent upgrades of the chart from automatically updating the configuration)
```

1. Setting extra CLI flags for components individually (discouraged, except for setting availability zone)

See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.

> **Limitation:** it is not possible to delete configuration parameters via `mimir.structuredConfig` that were set in `mimir.config`. Set the configuration parameter to its default or to some other value instead.

### How the configuration is applied

Grafana Mimir components are run with a configuration calculcated by the following process:

> 1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaluated as a Helm template. This step is intended to ensure that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example setting up cluster-specific addresses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaluated as a Helm template. This step ensures that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example, setting up cluster-specific addresses.
```

> 1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaluated as a Helm template. This step is intended to ensure that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example setting up cluster-specific addresses.
> 1. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` are recursively merged with `mimir.config`. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` take precedence over the values in `mimir.config`. The result is again evaluated as a Helm template. This step is intended to apply user specific customizations. For example S3 storage details.

Reviewer 3: Minor wording suggestion and adding missing commas.
```suggestion
1. The configuration YAML in `mimir.config` is evaluated as a Helm template. This step ensures that the configuration applies to the Kubernetes cluster where it will be installed. For example, setting up cluster-specific addresses.
1. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` are recursively merged with `mimir.config`. The values from `mimir.structuredConfig` take precedence over the values in `mimir.config`. The result is again evaluated as a Helm template. This step applies user-specific customizations. For example, S3 storage details.
```

Prepare a `ConfigMap` object where the configuration is placed under the `mimir.yaml` data key.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-mimir-config
data:
  mimir.yaml: |
    <configuration>
```

Replace `<configuration>` with the configuration as multiline text, be mindful of indentation. The name `my-mimir-config` is just an example.

Set the following values in your custom values file (or on the Helm command line):

```yaml
useExternalConfig: true
externalConfigSecretName: my-mimir-config
externalConfigVersion: "0"
```

### Use external Secret

Prepare a `Secret` object where the configuration is base64-encoded and placed under the `mimir.yaml` data key.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-mimir-config
data:
  mimir.yaml: <configuration-base64>
```

Replace `<configuration-base64>` with the configuration encoded as base64 format string. The name `my-mimir-config` is just an example.

Set the following values in your custom values file (or on the Helm command line):

```yaml
useExternalConfig: true
externalConfigSecretName: my-mimir-config
configStorageType: Secret
externalConfigVersion: "0"
```

### Update the configuration

> In order to make components aware of configuration changes, either:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To make components aware of configuration changes, either:
```

- Update the value in `externalConfigVersion` and run `helm update`

> - or restart components affected by the configuration change manually

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- or restart components affected by the configuration change manually.
```

## Injecting credentials

> Credentials should be kept in `Secret` objects or in a credential vault. The Helm chart value `global.extraEnvFrom` can be used to inject the credentials into the runtime environment variables of the Grafana Mimir components. The data keys will become environment variables and usable in the Grafana Mimir configuration. For example `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` can be referenced as `${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}` in the configuration. See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.

Reviewer 2: credential vault sounds like a generic term. Do you need to mention it here? The first sentence sounds like advice. Instead we can state that the chart allows to inject secrets from a secret.

also some passive->active voice
 
```suggestion
Credentials should be kept in `Secret` objects or in a credential vault. You can use the Helm chart value `global.extraEnvFrom` to inject the credentials into the runtime environment variables of the Grafana Mimir components. The data keys will become environment variables and usable in the Grafana Mimir configuration. For example `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` can be referenced as `${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}` in the configuration. See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.
```

> You can use the Helm chart value `global.extraEnvFrom` to inject credentials into the runtime environment variables of the Grafana Mimir components. The data keys will become environment variables and usable in the Grafana Mimir configuration. For example `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` can be referenced as `${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}` in the configuration. See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.
> 
> Grafana Mimir does not keep track of changes to the credentials. If the credentials change, Grafana Mimir pods should be restarted to use the new value. An easy way to trigger such restart is to provide a global [pod annotation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) in `global.podAnnotation` which will be applied to all Grafana Mimir pods. Changing the value of the global annotation will make Kubernetes recreate all pods. For example changing `global.podAnnotations.bucketSecretVersion` from `"0"` to `"1"` triggers a restart - note that pod annotations can only be strings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the Helm chart value `global.extraEnvFrom` to inject credentials into the runtime environment variables of the Grafana Mimir components. The data keys will become environment variables and usable in the Grafana Mimir configuration. For example, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` can be referenced as `${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}` in the configuration. See the [Example](#example-of-configuration-managed-with-helm) for a practical application.

Grafana Mimir does not track changes to the credentials. If the credentials change, Grafana Mimir pods should be restarted to use the new value. To trigger a restart, provide a global [pod annotation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) in `global.podAnnotation` which will be applied to all Grafana Mimir pods. Changing the value of the global annotation will make Kubernetes recreate all pods. For example, changing `global.podAnnotations.bucketSecretVersion` from `"0"` to `"1"` triggers a restart. Note that pod annotations can only be strings.
```

## Example of configuration managed with Helm

This example shows how to set up the configuration to use an S3 bucket for blocks storage. We assume that the namespace in use is called `mimir-test`.

1. Set up the external blocks storage, in this case S3 with buckets named for example `my-blocks-bucket`, `my-ruler-bucket` and in case of Grafana Enterprise Metrics `my-admin-bucket`.

1. Create an external secret with the S3 credentials by writing the following to a `mysecret.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: mimir-bucket-secret
   data:
     AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: FAKEACCESSKEY
     AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: FAKESECRETKEY
   ```

>    Replace FAKEACCESSKEY and FAKESECRETKEY with the actual value encoded in base64.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Replace `FAKEACCESSKEY` and `FAKESECRETKEY` with the actual value encoded in base64.
```

         dir: /data/tsdb
     compactor:
       data_dir: /data
     frontend:
       align_queries_with_step: true
       log_queries_longer_than: 10s
     frontend_worker:
       frontend_address: mimir-query-frontend-headless.test.svc:9095
     ingester:
       ring:
         final_sleep: 0s
         num_tokens: 512
         unregister_on_shutdown: false
     ingester_client:
       grpc_client_config:
         max_recv_msg_size: 104857600
         max_send_msg_size: 104857600
     limits: {}
     memberlist:
       abort_if_cluster_join_fails: false
       compression_enabled: false
       join_members:
       - dns+mimir-gossip-ring.test.svc.cluster.local:7946
     ruler:
       alertmanager_url: dnssrvnoa+http://_http-metrics._tcp.mimir-alertmanager-headless.test.svc.cluster.local/alertmanager
       enable_api: true
       rule_path: /data
     ruler_storage:
       s3:
         access_key_id: ${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}
         bucket_name: my-ruler-bucket
         endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
         secret_access_key: ${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}
     runtime_config:
       file: /var/mimir/runtime.yaml
     server:
       grpc_server_max_concurrent_streams: 1000
   ```

> 1. Install the chart with the `helm` command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the chart with the `helm` command:
```

   ```bash
   helm -n mimir-test install mimir grafana/mimir-distributed -f custom.yaml
   ```

## Example output of helm diff command

The example is generated with the following steps:

> 1. Install Grafana Mimir with the `helm` command

Reviewer 3: Added colon at the end of the sentence to be consistent with previous steps
```suggestion
1. Install Grafana Mimir with the `helm` command:
```

   ```bash
   helm -n test install mimir grafana/mimir-distributed --version 3.0.0
   ```

> 1. Create a `custom.yaml` file with the following content

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a `custom.yaml` file with the following content:
```

   ```yaml
   mimir:
   structuredConfig:
     alertmanager:
       external_url: https://example.com/alerts
     server:
       log_level: debug
   ```

> 1. Produce the diff with the `helm` command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Produce the diff with the `helm` command:
```

                 initialDelaySeconds: 45
               resources:
                 requests:
                   cpu: 100m
                   memory: 512Mi
               securityContext:
                 readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
               env:
               envFrom:
           nodeSelector:
             {}
           affinity:
             podAntiAffinity:
               requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
               - labelSelector:
                   matchExpressions:
                   - key: target
                     operator: In
                     values:
                     - distributor
                 topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
           tolerations:
             []
           terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 60
           volumes:
             - name: config
               configMap:
                 name: mimir-config
                 items:
                   - key: "mimir.yaml"
                     path: "mimir.yaml"
             - name: runtime-config
               configMap:
                 name: mimir-runtime
             - name: storage
               emptyDir: {}
    #... cut for size ...
   ```

>    Lines starting with "`-`" were removed and lines starting with "`+`" were added. The change to the annotation `checksum/config` means the pods will be restarted when this change is applied.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Lines starting with "`-`" were removed and lines starting with "`+`" were added. The change to the annotation `checksum/config` means the pods will be restarted when this change is applied.
```
